# matplotlib---challenge-

In order to complete this analysis, the mouse info and the mouse study data was merged into one data frame using pandas, and it was cleaned up by removing the duplicate mouse ID. The mean, median, variance, std dev, and SEM were calculated by doing a group by on the drug regimen column, and those series were merged into a single dataframe. The aggregation method was used to replicate the same statistical summary table. A bar chart was created to show the drug regimen vs the number of mouse IDs in the cleaned dataframe. This was created using the pandas method and the pyplot method. A pie chart was created to show the male vs female mice used in the study using the pandas and pyplot method as well.

To find the quartiles and outliers for four drug treatment regimens, first a group by was done to find the maximum time point for each mouse ID and this was merged to the original dataframe. The four treatments were put into a list and an empty list was created to eventually place the tumor volume data at the greatest time point. A for loop and a few if statements were used to loop through the rows in the merged dataframe, while also checking if that particular entry was at the greatest time point. If it is, then the tumor volume will be added to the empty list. Four empty lists were created to hold the tumor volume for each treatment, and a for loop and if elif statements were used to loop through the tumor volume list and add to the treatment list. Then a function was created to calculate the inner quartile range and to see if any of the values in the treatment list are outliers. This function was used on the four treatment lists. A box plot of the four different treatments that show the distribution of the tumor volumes were created. 

A line plot was created to show the time point vs tumor volume for mouse ID I509 using the timepoint and tumor volume column in the dataframe. A scatter plot with and without a linear regression model was created that displayed the weight of the mice vs the average tumor volume. The mean of the tumor volume for each mouse ID was calculated using a groupby, and the drug regimen was filtered for Capomulin, with the scatter plot of this data generated.
